Elimination - Elimination is a permanent solution and should be attempted in the first instance. 
              The hazard is eliminated altogether by design the hazard out thus removing the hazardous product or process. 
              For example, the elimination of a hazardous process or substance.

Substitution -Substitution involves replacing the hazard by one that presents a lower risk. 
              This could involve substituting the hazard for another product or process that poses less of a risk.
              For example the substitution of a toxic substance with a less toxic substance. or substituting a harmful cleaning solvent for ultrasonic cleaning equipment

Engineering Controls - Engineering controls involve some structural change to the work environment or work process to place a barrier to, or interrupt the transmission path between, the worker and the hazard.  
                       This may include machine guards, isolation or enclosure of hazards, the use of extraction ventilation and manual handling devices. 
                       Isolation or enclosure of hazards, sound-dampening materials to reduce noise levels, safety interlocks and radiation shielding.

Administrative (Procedural) Controls - Administrative (procedural) controls reduce or eliminate exposure to a hazard by adherence to procedures or instructions. 
                                        Documentation should emphasize all the steps to be taken and the controls to be used in carrying out a task safely. 
                                        Administrative controls are dependent on appropriate human behaviour for success. May involve training and supervision.  
                                        Examples include safe working procedures and permits to work. Safety warnings, operator certification for machinery, requiring workers in hot environments to take breaks in cool rest areas and provide fluids for hydration.

Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) - Personal protective equipment is worn by people as a barrier between themselves and the hazard. 
                                      The success of this control is dependent on the protective equipment being chosen correctly, as well as fitted correctly and worn at all times when required. 
                                      It is used to create a barrier between the user and the hazard. Success depends on choosing the correct protective equipment, fitted correctly, worn at all times. 
                                      Example - use heat resistant hand protection when employees' hands are exposed to thermal hazards and harmful temperature extremes
